[Bryan Eisenstadt]
Thank you all for joining today's session.
We're excited to introduce you
to subscription offer codes,
which add new subscriber
growth opportunities
for your auto-renewable subscriptions
on the App Store.
First, let's introduce ourselves.
I'm Bryan Eisenstadt,
and I'm on the App Store
Monetization team.
Hi, I'm David Wendland,
a global technical advocate
with the App Store Commerce team.
I'm Kenny Elmore, and I'm on
the App Store Operations team.
[Eisenstadt] Today,
I'll briefly introduce you to offer codes.
Then David will discuss
engineering of the feature,
and Kenny will walk through setting up
your code campaigns in App Store Connect
and measuring offer code performance.
Let's begin with our first session.
I'll introduce you to
subscription offer codes,
explain how they work, and describe
the ways you can start using them
to grow and retain your business.
We're excited to share that
offer codes are now available,
and you can begin generating codes
in App Store Connect.
Offer codes are complementary
to our other offer types
that you may already be familiar with
but provide even more flexibility,
giving you the ability to merchandise
subscription offers outside of your app.
Offer codes can help you acquire,
retain, and win back subscribers.
They are unique,
one-time use alphanumeric codes
that you can choose to distribute across
both your online and offline channels.
Once distributed,
your customers can seamlessly redeem
offer codes in the App Store
or directly in your app
when using the StoreKit API,
which David is going to
talk about more shortly.
At the end of the offer period,
the subscription auto-renews
at the standard price,
unless a subscriber cancels
or turns off auto-renewal.
There are a number of different ways
offer codes can be used,
and you have the flexibility
to distribute them however you like.
Codes can be distributed
in your digital marketing channels,
such as email,
to acquire or win back subscribers.
For example, a sports league
might email an offer code
for an extended free trial
to season ticket holders.
As an add-on where a subscription service
complements a physical good or service.
For example, an exercise bike company
could include an extended trial
for virtual classes
with the purchase of a bike.
In physical retail or at events,
including industry conferences.
For example, a music service
could hand out flyers with offer codes
at concerts or festivals.
Distributed via third-party partners
as part of co-marketing campaigns
and partner-marketing initiatives.
A mobile phone carrier
might distribute offer codes
for a video streaming service
to its customers via email.
Codes can also be distributed by
customer support teams
who might give a customer
with a service issue
a free or discounted period
in lieu of sending the customer
to AppleCare for a refund.
You will create codes in App Store Connect
and have the ability to configure
your offer code campaigns
for new, existing,
and/or lapsed subscribers.
You can create up to 10 active offers
per subscription SKU
and have the ability to create batches
of between 500 to 25,000 codes,
up to a maximum of 150,000 per app,
per quarter.
You'll be able to choose
each batch's expiration date,
up to a maximum of six months
from the date of creation.
After you've configured
and distributed your codes,
customers can redeem directly
on the App Store
through the Redeem Gift Card flow
found in the account page
or within your app
by using Apple's provided UI.
The Apple UI
handles the full redemption experience,
and if an app isn't already installed,
the user will first be prompted
to download the app.
Let's look at that customer journey
in more detail.
If you're distributing
your offer codes offline,
such as at an event
or with a physical product,
the customer can seamlessly redeem
the code from within your app
when you use
the presentCodeRedemptionSheet.
You might consider adding
a Redeem Code button
to your app's paywall,
like the example here.
After a customer taps
your custom Redeem button,
the system automatically provides
a series of code-redemption screens,
the first being the code input page.
Once a customer types in the code
and that code is valid,
the offer details page is shown.
If for any reason the code isn't valid,
the customer will see
a clear error message
explaining why the offer
is unavailable to them.
Now, if you're distributing on
digital marketing channels,
such as email,
each code will have
an associated deep link URL
for distribution on these channels.
You'll be able to use a unique URL
to seamlessly deep link the customer
from your email to the redemption flow.
So, in this example,
Ocean Journal is offering
a one-month free trial via email,
and once the customer taps Try It Now,
they're deep linked
into the redemption flow.
If the app isn't already installed,
the customer will first be prompted
to download the app.
Once the app has downloaded,
the offer details sheet will appear
and the customer
can then redeem and subscribe.
You'll notice the code input step
isn't required here,
as the code is part of the URL.
However you decide to distribute
your offer codes,
we recommend communicating
the code expiration date
alongside other eligibility
or availability limits
in your marketing communications.
Offer codes can also be utilized
to cross-promote subscription apps.
In this example,
offer codes are used
to assist with migrating customers
from an app that's being sunset
to a new app.
ZenWell clearly communicates
that it is closing
and the customer's current subscription
will expire.
ZenWell then uses an offer code deep link
to give those customers a special offer
to a new app, Serenely,
and since they're using a deep link URL
associated with each code,
the customer
can seamlessly download the new app
and then redeem and subscribe.
Additionally,
offer codes can be used offline
at events or industry conferences.
In this example,
the unique offer code is printed on flyers
which are handed out at a music festival,
giving attendees
a three-month free subscription
to a music streaming service.
Later, the same app
sends lapsed subscribers
an offer code via email for an additional
one month free to retry the service.
Offer codes are complementary to
our other offer types
but now give you much more flexibility.
Each offer type has a distinct use case.
So let's quickly summarize
the three different offer types.
Offer codes can be used for acquiring new,
retaining, and winning back subscribers.
Offer codes give you the unique ability
to merchandise your subscription offers
outside of your app, online and offline,
but with a seamless customer experience.
You can configure
10 active offers per subscription,
with a limit of 150,000 codes
per app, per quarter.
And customers can redeem
one code per active offer.
Offer codes are available now,
and we can't wait to see
how you use this new feature
to acquire and retain subscribers.
Next, my colleagues David and Kenny
will cover some of the finer details
around implementing
an offer code redemption flow
and how to set up offer codes
in App Store Connect.
So I'll hand it over to my colleague David
to talk about engineering offer codes.
[David] Thank you, Bryan.
Hello, everyone.
I'm David Wendland,
a global technical advocate
for the App Store Commerce team
based in Cupertino.
Today, I'm going to discuss offer codes
and give you things to consider
when planning and implementing offer codes
into your products, application,
and back-end systems.
I'm going cover this in three sections:
configuring your offer codes,
then dive into the redemption experience
and things to consider,
and lastly, the updates
to subscriber status with offer codes.
Let's begin with configuring your offers.
So, to get started,
the first thing to review are
the different configurations available.
You can see the product durations
listed in the far left column,
and then the corresponding offer durations
to choose from on the far right:
pay as you go, pay up front,
and free trial.
These options should be familiar,
as these are the same choices available
for introductory or promotional offers.
For example,
if you have a monthly subscription,
then you can configure
a pay-as-you-go offer
from 1 to 12 months long.
Or you can choose
a pay-up-front or free-trial offer
with any of the durations listed.
Now, a configuration
that is unique to offer codes
is that you can restrict redemptions
by customer cohort:
new, existing, or expired.
The important thing to know here
is that each cohort only applies
per subscription group,
meaning it is only checking
if the customer
is new, existing, or expired
to that subscription group
that the offer code is for.
With that, it's a best practice
to use your existing products and groups.
This will have long-term benefits
by leveraging what you already have.
Lastly, when configuring your offers,
you will be asked
if you want to allow customers
to receive the introductory offer
along with the redeemed offer code.
If allowed, the intro offer
goes into effect immediately,
followed by the offer code.
Or if you choose to not allow,
then subscribers will begin
their offer code period immediately,
as you would expect.
But they will retain their eligibility
for an introductory offer.
I will illustrate this behavior
a little bit later
so you have a more thorough understanding
on this choice.
Now, note that this configuration
only applies to subscribers
that are eligible for
the introductory offer in the first place.
Subscribers that have already received
an introductory offer
for a product
in the same subscription group
will not receive another.
They must be coming from
an inactive state,
so only new or an expired subscriber
can receive an introductory offer
in any manner.
And I wanted to note
that this configuration
cannot be changed or reverted.
And remember, this does not change
the customer's eligibility.
It only determines the behavior
at the time of redemption.
So, a subscriber could be eligible
to receive the introductory offer
in the future.
Now, let's discuss implementation.
I've broken it down into four pieces.
To start, in App Store Connect,
you will create
your offer campaigns per SKU
and then generate the codes
and download them
to distribute to your subscribers.
Next is code management.
Ideally, you have a system
to manage these codes.
It is important that you keep track
when your codes are distributed,
digitally or in print,
as once they are out of your control,
you should treat them as used.
Also consider
a real-time distribution method,
where codes are only given to customers
once you have verified
their subscriber status
or eligibility criteria.
Next is your client application.
Ideally, you optimize your app
to support the in-app redemption sheet
for the best customer experience
and ensuring your app handles
external transactions gracefully
and offers onboarding.
Because offer codes
can be redeemed outside of your app,
initializing the TransactionObserver
on app launch
ensures no transaction is missed.
Now, if you have eligibility logic,
that will be client and server.
And this logic can take into account
any info you have
on your customer's journey,
such as
their offer-type consumption history
or current status.
This can be used to determine
which SKUs and subscription offers
to merchandise to customers
for the best experience.
Lastly, there is
the offer code consumption history
available in
the subscriber's App Receipts,
and this data can be used
when determining eligibility
for future campaigns.
Now let's discuss some redemption topics.
I will cover some restrictions and limits
to be aware of
and then discuss the redemption experience
and how those work with your app.
And then illustrate customer experience
with the intro and offer code
configuration choices.
Some restrictions to be aware of
is that subscribers are limited to
one redemption per configured offer code
and are uniquely identifiable
by the name added
when set up in App Store Connect.
Also be aware that subscribers
cannot redeem an offer code
that will result in a downgrade
from their current level of service.
It must be for a higher-tiered SKU
or the same SKU
that they are currently subscribed to.
Ideally, this is taken into account
with your eligibility logic
when targeting subscribers with an offer.
Now let's discuss
some specifics on code redemption,
as there are three primary methods
for customers to use.
As noted, right out of the box,
subscribers can just go to the App Store
directly to redeem their offer code.
Now, this will be an external transaction.
So when your app launches,
you will need to be monitoring
the payment queue
in order to initiate
your onboarding experience
for an optimal experience.
Another way is through the in-app
redemption sheet that you saw earlier.
This is the ideal experience,
where subscribers will have the ability
to redeem an offer directly in your app
using the presentCodeRedemptionSheet.
This will be the only scenario
where the redemption occurs
with your app
actively running in the foreground,
as the sheet will open
right on top of your app.
Note, if you are displaying codes
within your app,
it may be beneficial to make it easy
for subscribers to copy and paste.
And here's that flow.
That Redeem button
can be put anywhere in your app.
Here, ours is just below
the Sign In button.
Once tapped, the sheet opens up
on top of your application,
and the subscriber
will enter their code and tap Enter.
The customer can review the terms
and proceed through.
Once completed, you will find
a new transaction in the payment queue.
The third redemption option
is the redeem URL,
where you will pre-populate it
with the subscriber's unique offer code.
It is comprised of two values
to be aware of.
The ID represents your application's ID,
so it will be a static value
for each of your applications.
The second value is the code,
where you will dynamically populate
the URL
with the subscriber's
unique alphanumeric value.
If that URL was embedded in an email,
then tapping it
would take the user into the app store
to complete the transaction.
Some things to note:
The subscriber here
never sees the code during this flow,
and when it is completed,
it would be another external transaction
that your app will need to fulfill
when the customer launches your app.
As noted, redemptions can occur
outside your app,
so it's important you initialize
the TransactionObserver at launch.
This is a best practice
and important for Ask to Buy,
PSD2, and offer codes.
So, with proper initialization,
it ensures no transactions are missed.
On the other side, finishTransaction
removes the transactions from the queue
and tells us the customer
has received their items or service.
Between these two,
when implemented correctly,
you will provide
an optimal customer experience.
Let's move back to the intro offer
and offer code configuration.
As mentioned, I wanted to visualize
the subscriber experience
with either setting.
So let's take a simple scenario.
We have a standard monthly subscription,
and we've configured it
with a one-week free introductory offer
and also created an offer code
for one week free.
So let's show what happens
if we do not allow the redemption of both.
When the subscriber redeems
their offer code,
the offer code
goes into effect immediately.
After the offer period, the subscription
renews at the regular price.
Now, at some point,
the subscriber may expire in the future.
If they resubscribe,
since they are eligible for
the introductory offer,
they would then receive
their one-week free trial.
So, this configuration just determines
at what point they will receive
their introductory offer.
This experience
is just something to keep in mind
when creating offers for a given group
that you are targeting.
But what if you choose to allow?
Let's use that same example scenario.
But this time,
when subscriber redeems their offer code,
the intro offer goes into effect first,
followed by the offer code period,
and then the subscription
renews at the regular price.
I hope this helps illustrate
and provides more clarity
on what the configuration means
from a subscriber's experience
and helps you determine
when you want to allow or not allow
this redemption behavior.
To finish up, here are the updates
to subscriber status
in respect to offer codes.
There are two ways to get
a subscriber's current status:
from the App Receipt
or real-time server notifications.
Let's start with App Receipt.
In the App Receipt,
you will find the new field,
offer_code_reference_name.
This is the unique string
you added in App Store Connect
and will be unique
for all your offer codes.
This data is only available
when validating an App Receipt
with our verifyReceipt service.
Now let's discuss server notifications.
In case you are not familiar
with our server notifications,
these are real-time updates
sent from our servers directly to yours
when a subscriber event
has changed their status.
You can find
all the supported subscriber events
in our developer documentation.
The field name in our notifications
is the same, offer_code_reference_name,
and it is available in
a unified_receipt.Latest_receipt_info
object.
The notification types
that you would receive
when a subscriber redeems an offer code
are INITIAL_BUY.
This is sent when subscribing to
a subscription group for the first time.
So if a subscriber redeems an offer code
that results in a new subscription,
then the INITIAL_BUY notification type
is sent.
Next, is a notification type
specific for existing subscribers.
If they redeem an offer code that results
in them resubscribing or upgrading,
then an INTERACTIVE_BUY notification
will be sent.
And lastly, subscribers
that are redeeming an offer code
after they have canceled,
that will generate a
DID_CHANGE_RENEWAL_STATUS notification,
as this redemption re-enables
the subscriber's auto-renew status.
Now I'll hand it off to Kenny
to share more insights on setting up
offer codes in App Store Connect.
[Kenny] Thanks, David.
Hi, I'm Kenny Elmore,
and I'm on the App Store Operations team.
Subscription setup has two parts.
There's the setup in App Store Connect
as well as the work
that needs to be done on the back end.
This includes the things
David went over earlier,
such as server-to-server notifications,
receipt validation,
and implementation
using the correct StoreKit APIs.
What we will focus on today
is the App Store Connect portion
of this setup.
Required roles are:
Account Holder,
Admin,
App Manager, Developer, or Marketing.
Offer code configuration has three parts.
First, you'll need to set
customer eligibility,
territory availability, pricing,
and intro offer eligibility
in App Store Connect.
You'll do this by creating an offer.
Then you'll need to generate
batches of codes
attached to that offer
to share with your users.
Finally,
you'll need to download those codes
and either distribute them
to users directly
or create unique redemption URLs
to share with users.
From My Apps, select your app.
In the sidebar, under In-App Purchases,
click Manage.
Select your auto-renewable subscription
from the list.
In the Subscription Prices section,
click the "plus" icon.
From the drop-down menu,
click Create Offer Codes.
Enter a reference name for your offer.
You'll use this reference name
to manage the offer in App Store Connect
and to identify sales associated
with offers in Sales and Trends reports.
First, select the customer eligibility
for your offer.
You can choose any combination
of new, existing, or expired users.
New users are users
who have never subscribed
to any subscription product
within the group.
Existing users are users
who are currently subscribed
to a product within the group.
Expired users are users
who were previously subscribed
to a product within the group
but whose subscription has expired.
Here is where you'll choose
your introductory offer
if your subscription
has an introductory call.
If your subscription
has an introductory offer,
determine whether users
redeeming your codes
should be eligible to redeem both a code
and an introductory offer
by choosing from the following options:
If "Yes,"
new users will redeem
your app's introductory offer first,
then automatically renew
to the offer they redeemed with your code.
If "No," new users
will redeem the offer code first,
then automatically renew
to the standard subscription price
without using the introductory offer.
If the customer cancels at any point
and then resubscribes,
they'll still be eligible
to redeem an introductory offer.
Choose the appropriate territories
for your offer, then click Next.
Choose either pay as you go,
pay up front, or free,
then choose the appropriate duration,
currency, and price.
Apple automatically calculates
the prices for all territories
based on your chosen price point.
But you also have the option
to set a different price
for specific territories.
In this example,
we're creating a free offer.
Select Duration.
Click Create.
Once you've configured your offers,
you'll need to create codes
for your users to redeem.
You can create up to 150,000 new codes
every quarter per app.
In order for users to redeem codes,
your app must be in
the "ready for sale" state.
Next to your offer, click Create Codes.
In the pop-up window,
select the number of codes
you wish to create.
You must select a minimum of 500
and a maximum of 25,000 at a time.
Choose an expiration date.
The expiration date
determines how long the codes are valid.
You must select a minimum of one day
and a maximum of six months.
If you need more than 25,000 codes,
you can create multiple batches of codes
on the same offer.
Once your codes are created,
you'll need to download them
from App Store Connect
so you can share them with your users.
You can utilize your own channels,
such as email
or offline marketing campaigns.
On the right-hand side,
next to the batch you want to download,
click Download.
The file downloads automatically.
Open the file
with a spreadsheet application.
You can give codes to users directly.
Codes can be shared
through on- or offline channels.
For example, print the codes on a card
and hand out the cards at an event.
Users can redeem the codes
by entering them in
the Redeem Gift Card or Code page
in their App Store account settings,
or within your app
if you've implemented
the presentCodeRedemptionSheet API.
Codes can be used to create
unique redemption URLs
that you can share directly with users.
When the user taps on the URL,
they'll be taken to a page
where they can redeem your code.
Customers who do not yet have
your app installed
will first be prompted to download the app
before redeeming the code.
To create these URLs,
copy the link on your offer page
and then add each code
to the end of the URL.
You can deactivate codes at any time
in App Store Connect.
Users will no longer
be able to redeem them
and will be shown an error message
stating the offer is no longer available.
Locate the codes you wish to deactivate
and click Deactivate Codes.
The codes will expire immediately.
Subscribers who have already redeemed
the codes won't be affected.
The deactivated codes
appear in your expired codes list.
You can have up to 10 active offers
per subscription SKU at a time
in App Store Connect.
If you need more than 10,
consider deactivating offers
whose codes have expired
or that you no longer need.
In the upper right-hand corner,
click Deactivate.
Deactivated offers
will move to your inactive offers list.
You can view your deactivated offers
at any time
as well as download expired codes
associated with deactivated offers.
You can have up to 10 active offers,
each with their own customer eligibility,
territories, prices,
and intro offer stacking behavior.
Click to view pricing and duration
for each offer.
Just a quick review of offer codes.
Primary use: Acquiring, retaining,
and winning back subscribers.
Customer eligibility:
New, existing, previous subscribers.
Customer redemption limits:
One per customer per active offer.
App Store Connect limits:
10 active offers per subscription.
You can create a maximum of 150,000 codes
per app, per quarter.
Offer configuration:
You select customer eligibility rules,
timing, territories, pricing,
and expiration in App Store Connect.
Compatibility:
iOS 14 and later,
macOS not supported.
Measuring offer performance.
To measure the success
of your offer code campaigns,
you will be able to view reporting
in Sales and Trends,
including updates to
the subscription dashboards and reports.
This reporting will help you understand
the number of paid subscribers
acquired by offer codes,
the offer-code-to-standard-price
conversion rate,
and what are the most redeemed
offer code campaigns.
The subscription retention dashboard
will be updated to include
your offer code conversion rate,
which shows the conversion rate
of all your offers for the past 30 days.
This is the number of subscriptions
with an offer code enabled
that converted to the standard price
divided by the total number of
subscriptions with an offer code enabled
eligible to convert to standard price
in the past 30 days.
Additionally, we will be adding
a top offer codes table
to the bottom
of the Sales and Trends overview page.
Easily identify which offers
have the most redeemed codes.
We'll be adding
the offer code reference name
to transactions associated with codes
in your summary sales report.
This can help you track
the total number of codes redeemed
as well as gain insights
such as redemptions by device type,
region, and more.
We've also added
the offer code reference name
to your subscription report,
subscription events report,
and the subscriber report,
which can help you calculate
your offer code conversion rates
and cancellation rates.
Now back to Bryan
to conclude today's session.
[Bryan] Thanks, Kenny.
In summary of today's session,
consider implementing
a redemption flow within your app
for the best customer experience.
Only generate the number of codes
that you plan to use,
as you can't recover unredeemed codes,
and remember that codes expire six months
after the date they were created.
Clearly communicate offer details,
eligibility requirements,
and how to redeem in your communications,
including that customers
can only redeem in iOS 14 or later.
Thanks for watching.
We can't wait to see how you use
offer codes to grow your business.
For more information about offer codes,
please visit the Apple developer site.